Outline
	In light of spiritual blessings from Christ, Paul exhorted the Ephesians to walk in a manner worthy of the calling
		Paul, an apostle of Chirst by God's will, wished grace and peace from God for the faithful saints in Ephesus (1:1, 2)
		Doctrine and theology (1:3 - 3:20)
			God chose to bless us with every spiritual blessing in Christ to bring praise to His glory (1:3-14)
			Paul prayed that the Spirit would give the Ephesians knowledge of what God has done for them through Christ's exaltation (1:15-23)
			Salvation by grace through faith (2:1-10)

Observations
	And you were dead																1
		Dead people can't do anything
		in the trespasses and sins													1
			in which you once walked												2
				We once walked in sin
				Do we still walk in sin?
				following the course of this world									2
					The course of this world leads to sin and death
				following the prince of the power of the air						2
					Satan
					the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience		2
						Satan is at work in those who disobey God
						among whom we all once lived								3
							We once lived among the sons of disobedience
								Don't we still?
							in the passions of our flesh							3
								carrying out the desires of the body and the mind	3
									We desire to disobey
							and were by nature children of wrath					3
								We, by nature, deserve God's wrath
								like the rest of mankind							3
									All mankind deserves God's wrath
	But God																			4
		being rich in mercy															4
			If God were not rich in mercy, we would be damned
		because of the great love with which He loved us							4
		even when we were dead in our trespasses									5
			Dead - incapable of deserving or desiring God's love or mercy
		made us alive together with Christ											5
			Sin makes us dead, Christ makes us alive
			Just as God made Christ alive after the crucifixion, He makes us alive with Him after our sin
			by grace you have been saved											5
				We deserved death, but God gave us life
			and raised us up with Him												6
				and seated us with Him												6
					Just as we were made alive with Christ, so we are made rulers with Christ
					in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus							6
					so that in the coming ages										7
						We have not yet been shown the full riches of His grace
						He might show the immeasurable riches of His grace			7
							in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus					7
			For by grace you have been saved										8
				We did not deserve to be saved
				through faith.														8
					We were saved through our faith in God.
					And this is not your own doing									8
						Our faith is not our own. We were dead. We were incapable of producing faith.
						it is the gift of God										8
							God, in His grace, gave us the faith that we needed to have for Him to save us
							We did not choose Him. By giving us a faith that was foreign to our nature, He chose us.
							not a result of works									9
								God gave faith according to His sovereign election, not as a reward for being good.
								so that no one may boast							9
									No one can brag about their salvation because God did it all.
										If anything, we resisted our salvation and God saved us despite ourselves.
				For we are his workmanship											10
					created in Christ Jesus											10
						God made us
						for good works												10
							God made us to do good works
							which God prepared beforehand							10
								God prepared works for us to do
								that we should walk in them							10
									We should do the good works that God has prepared for us to do



1 - 3	We were dead in our sins and depraved in our sins, deserving of God's wrath.

	We were rebelling against God along with all of mankind because we wanted to. We desired to keep sinning and so we kept sinning. We followed the sinners we were surrounded by, who in turn followed the Devil. Our sins had the consequence that we became dead. Because we were dead we were incapable of working towards or even desiring any kind of spiritual resurection. We, along with all the world, deserved God's wrath. We, by our very nature, deserved to be thrown into hell.


4 - 7	God, in His mercy, made us alive with Christ and raised us up to heaven to rule with Him.

	God's mercy is endless and He loves us with an unfathomably great love. Because of this, He caused us to become alive when we had made ourselves dead. We did not deserve this life nor did we do anything to gain this life. God did not stop there, however. He has raised us up and seated us alongside Christ as rulers in heaven. This isn't even the full extent of His grace, though. The reason we have been seated with Christ is so that God might later show us the fullness of His grace to an extent which has not yet been revealed to us.


8a	We have been saved by grace through faith

	God saved us when we did not deserve it. He worked this salvation through our faith in Him.


8b, 9	Our faith was given to us by God, apart from anything that we had done

	We were dead in our sins and therefore completely incapable of making a decision for God or producing the faith necessary for salvation. God did absolutely everything involved in the saving process. God saved us despite our efforts, not because of our efforts.


10	God made us and saved us to do good works.

	God has good works prepared beforehand for us to do. He made us and saved us so that we could do those good works. We cannot do them before he saves us.



Main Idea
	We were dead in our sins and deserved wrath, but God mercifully gave us faith that He might make us alive in him