Outline

	In light of spiritual blessings from Christ, Paul exhorted the Ephesians to walk in a manner worthy of the calling (Ephesians)
		Paul, an apostle of Chirst by God's will, wished grace and peace from God for the faithful saints in Ephesus (Ephesians 1:1, 2)
		Doctrine and theology (Ephesians 1:3 - 3:20)
		Application (Ephesians 4:1 - 6:20)
		Closing (Ephesians 6:21-23)


Observations
	Paul is an apostle of Christ by God's will	(1)
	Apostleship is decided by the will of God	(1)
		Apostleship is not decided by the will of man
	Paul is writing to the saints in Ephesus who are faithful to Christ (1)
		There are faithful saints in Ephesus
	This introduction is very brief
	Paul wishes blessings from God upon the faithful Ephesians	(2)
		Grace and peace
		From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ
			God is our Father
			Jesus is the Christ
			Jesus is Lord
			Grace and peace come from God the Father and from Jesus
				No other source of grace or peace is sufficient













		Grace	(Charis)
		    grace
		        that which affords joy, pleasure, delight, sweetness, charm, loveliness: grace of speech
		    good will, loving-kindness, favour
        		of the merciful kindness by which God, exerting his holy influence upon souls, turns them to Christ, keeps, strengthens, increases them in Christian faith, knowledge, affection, and 				kindles them to the exercise of the Christian virtues
		    what is due to grace
        		the spiritual condition of one governed by the power of divine grace
		        the token or proof of grace, benefit
        		    a gift of grace
		            benefit, bounty
		    thanks, (for benefits, services, favours), recompense, reward




		Peace	(Eirene)
		    a state of national tranquillity
		        exemption from the rage and havoc of war
		    peace between individuals, i.e. harmony, concord
		    security, safety, prosperity, felicity, (because peace and harmony make and keep things safe and prosperous)
		    of the Messiah's peace
		        the way that leads to peace (salvation)
		    of Christianity, the tranquil state of a soul assured of its salvation through Christ, and so fearing nothing from God and content with its earthly lot, of whatsoever sort that is
		    the blessed state of devout and upright men after death







    Ephesians 1:2 is the same as Romans 1:7, I Corinthians 1:3, II Corinthians 1:2, Galatians 1:3, Philippians 1:2, and II Thessalonians 1:2
    	Similar to Colossians 1:2, I Thessalonians 1:1, I Timothy 1:2, II Timothy 1:2, Titus 1:4, and Philemon 3

Idea
	Paul, an apostle of Chirst by God's will, wished grace and peace from God for the faithful saints in Ephesus





Leading questions
	What authority does Paul have?
		He's an apostle
	Who is Paul an apostle of?
		Jesus
	How/Why did Paul become an apostle?
		By God's will
			Not by man's will
	Who was the letter written to?
		Were there faithful saints in Ephesus?
			Yes
	What is grace?	(See charis definition)
		good will, loving-kindness, favour of the merciful kindness by which God, exerting his holy influence upon souls, turns them to Christ, keeps, strengthens, increases them in Christian faith, knowledge, affection, and kindles them to the exercise of the Christian virtues
	What is peace?	(See eirene definition)
		of Christianity, the tranquil state of a soul assured of its salvation through Christ, and so fearing nothing from God and content with its earthly lot, of whatsoever sort that is
	Who do grace and peace come from?
		God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ
	What is so important about this that it is repeated in every one of Paul's letters?
	What's the big idea?
		Paul, an apostle of Chirst by God's will, wished grace and peace from God for the faithful saints in Ephesus
	How does this apply for us?
