Outline
	In light of spiritual blessings from Christ, Paul exhorted the Ephesians to walk in a manner worthy of the calling
		Paul, an apostle of Chirst by God's will, wished grace and peace from God for the faithful saints in Ephesus (1:1, 2)
		Doctrine and theology (Ephesians 1:3 - 3:20)
			God chose to bless us with every spiritual blessing in Christ in order to bring praise to His glory (Ephesians 1:3-14)
				God chose to bless us with every spiritual blessing in Christ, including forgiveness and adoption	(1:3-10)
				We have obtained an inheritance in God which is sealed by the Holy Spirit until we possess it	(1:11-14)
			Prayer and thanksgiving (Ephesians 1:15-23)
			Salvation by grace through faith (Ephesians 2:1-10)
			Unity in Christ (Ephesians 2:11-22)
			Mystery of the gospel revealed (Ephesans 3:1-13)
			Paul's prayer for strength and insight for Ephesians (Ephesians 3:14-21)
		Application (Ephesians 4:1 - 6:20)
		Closing (Ephesians 6:21-23)

Observations
	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ	(3)
	God is blessed
	Jesus is Lord
	Jesus is the Christ
	God is Jesus' Father
	who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places (3)
		Spiritual implies the work of the Holy Spirit
		God has withheld no blessings from us
		Our blessings are in the heavenly places because we will join God in the heavenly places
		even as He chose us in Him	(4)
			before the foundation of the world (4)
				God made the first move. He chose us first.
			that we should be holy and blameless before Him (4)
				We are holy and blameless before God
		In love he predestined us (5)
			God loves us
			God has always been in control of our destiny
			for adoption	(5)
				God has adopted us
				We are sons of God
					Jesus is our brother
				Our adoption into God's family is only accomplished through Jesus Christ
				according to the purposes of His will	(5)
					Our adoption was according to God's will
						God willed to adopt us
				to the praise of His glorious grace	(6)
					God's grace is glorious
					Our adoption as sons results in the praise of God's grace
					with which He has blessed us in the Beloved	(6)
						God blessed us with His grace
						We are blessed with God's grace in Jesus
		In Him we have redemption through His blood	(7)
			We have redemption in Jesus
			Our redemption comes through Jesus' blood
			We needed to be redeemed
			the forgiveness of our trespasses	(7)
				Our trespasses have been forgiven
				We receive forgiveness in Jesus
			According to the riches of His grace	(7)
				God's grace is rich
				Our redemption and forgiveness come only through God's grace
				which He lavished upon us (8)
					God is not stingy with His grace
						God has been very generous
					in all wisdom and insight	(8)
						It was wise for God to lavish His grace upon us
						God has all wisdom and insight
					making known to us the mystery of His will	(9)
						God's will is a mystery
						God made His will known to us
						According to His purpose	(9)
							The revelation of God's will was part of His plan
							God has a plan
							which He set forth in Christ	(9)
								Christ was part of God deciding His will
							as a plan for the fullness of time	(10)
								God planned redemption and forgiveness of trespasses to work toward the full administration of God's will in due time
								to unite all things in Him	(10)
									God intends to unite everything in Himself
									things in heaven and things on earth	(10)
		In Him we have obtained an inheritance	(11)
			We inherit off of God
			having been predestined	(11)
				We have been predestined as sons, therefore we obtain an inheritance
				according to the purpose of Him	(11)
					Our predestination was according to God's purposes
					who works all things according to the counsel of His will	(11)
						God is in control of everything
						Everything that God controls is directed towards His will
						All of creation submits to the will of God
			so that we who were the first hope in Christ	(12)
				Christ gives us hope
				Christ is our only hope
				might be to the praise of His glory	(12)
					Our inheritance the we receive from God causes us to bring praise to God's glory
		In Him you also	(13)
			Second person now
			when you heard the word of truth	(13)
				the gospel of your salvation	(13)
			believed in Him	(13)
			were sealed	(13)
				We were preserved for some purpose
					until we acquire full possession of it
				with the promised Holy Spirit	(13)
					We are sealed with the Holy Spirit
					The Holy Spirit was promised to us
					who is the guarentee of our inheritance	(14)
						The Holy Spirit guarentees our inheritance (seals it)
						until we acquire possession of it	(14)
							We do not yet have possession of our inheritance
			to the praise of His glory	(14)
				The reason the Holy Spirit seals our inheritance is so that God's glory might be praised

	Every spiritual blessing
		Chose us
			Holy and blameless before Him
		Predestined us
			for adoption as sons
		blessed us in the beloved
		redemption through His blood
		forgiveness of our trespasses
		riches of His grace lavished upon us
			making known to us the mystery of His will
		Unite all things in Him
		Obtained an inheritance
			Predestined
			Believed in Him
			Sealed with the Holy Spirit

	Verse summaries
		Blessed be God who blessed us	(3)
		God chose to make us holy and blameless before Him	(4)
		God predestined us for adoption as sons	(5)
		Our adoption results in praise to God	(6)
		We have redemption and forgiveness according to God's grace	(7)
		God wisely lavished His grace upon us	(8)
		God made the mystery of His will known to us	(9)
		The forgiveness of our sins was done with a future fullness in mind	(10)
		We have obtained an inheritance through God	(11)
		Our inheritance causes our hope in Christ to bring glory to God	(12)
		God caused us to beleive in Him and He sealed us with the Holy Spirit	(13)
		The Holy Spirit guarentees our inheritance until we come to possess it fully	(14)

	God has blessed us a lot
	All the blessings are through Him and through Christ
	The blessings are according to God's will
	The blessings bring glory to God
	The blessings were decided before the foundation of the world
	The blessings do not depend on us

Big Idea
	God chose to bless us with every spiritual blessing in Christ according to His own purposes

Pointed questions
	1:3, 4
		Who is the us?
			See verse 12
		Which member of the trinity do the blessings come from?
			All three
				The God (Father) and Father has blessed us in Christ (Son) with every Spiritual (Spirit) blessing
		Why are the spiritual blessings in the heavenly places?
			Because the spiritual blessings look forward to when we shall be with God in heaven
		What is the time frame of the blessings?
			Yes
				Decided from eternity passes and held in heaven for eternity future
		When was it decided that we were holy and blameless before God
			Before the foundation of the earth
	1:5, 6
		What has always been our destiny?
			adoption
		Who's our daddy?
			God
		What is the ultimate purpose of God's will to adopt us?
			The praise of His glorious grace
		Who is the Beloved?
			Jesus
		What have we been blessed with by whom and in whom?
			We have been blessed by God with His glorious grace in Jesus
	1:7-10
		Who do the pronouns refer to?
			First him and his refer to Jesus and the rest refer to God the Father
		What is the cause of our redemption and forgiveness?
			His blood, His grace, His will
		Was God foolish to forgive our sins?
			No
		Could we know God's will without Him directly revealing it?
			No
		How is God's will revealed to us
			Our redemption through Christ's blood according to God's grace
		How was God's will and purpose set forth?
			Through Christ
		Have fullness of God's grace and His will been realized yet?
			No, it is a plan for the fullness of time
		What is the end goal of God's plan?
			To unite all things to Himself
	1:11, 12
		Who is the we?
			Jewish believers
		What is their inheritance?
			See Genesis 12
		Why do their obtain an inheritance?
			Because they have been predestined for adoption
		Is there anything that God is not in control of?
			No
		Why does God give us an inheritance?
			So that we might bring praise to His glory
	1:13, 14
		Who is the you?
			Gentile believers (us)
		When were were we sealed?
			When we heard the gospel and believed
		How are we sealed?
			By the indwelling of the Holy Spirit
		When was the Holy Spirit promised?
			John 16
		Why do we need to be sealed?
			We have not yet acquired our inheritence
		What does the seal accomplish?
			The seal of the Holy Spirit guarenteees our inheritance
		What does this seal on gentiles mean regarding all the blessings given to Jews?
			The gentiles get them too
		Why were we sealed?
			To bring praise and glory to God
